# CS685A: Assignment 2
## Analysis of Indian Census Data of 2011

## Problem Description

* Can be found in the [Assignment](Assignment2_Updated.pdf) file.

## Requirements:

* Python3 should be present on your system and should be accessible using the command `python3`
* Install all libraries mentioned in `Requirements.txt` by running the following command:

```
python3 -m pip install -r Requirements.txt
```
OR
```
pip3 install -r Requirements.txt
```

## Running the Project:

* To run the complete project in one go, execute [`assign2.sh`](assign2.sh)

```
./assign2.sh
```

* <a name="shell1"></a>To run a certain segment, use the following scripts:
    1. [`percent-india.sh`](percent-india.sh) : To solve Q1
    2. [`gender-india.sh`](gender-india.sh) : To solve Q2
    3. [`geography-india.sh`](geography-india.sh) : To solve Q3
    4. [`3-to-2-ratio.sh`](3-to-2-ratio.sh) : To solve Q4(a)
    5. [`2-to-1-ratio.sh`](2-to-1-ratio.sh) : To solve Q4(b)
    6. [`age-india.sh`](age-india.sh) : To solve Q5
    7. [`literacy-india.sh`](literacy-india.sh) : To solve Q6
    8. [`region-india.sh`](region-india.sh) : To solve Q7
    9. [`age-gender.sh`](age-gender.sh) : To solve Q8
    10. [`literacy-gender.sh`](literacy-gender.sh) : To solve Q9

<p></p>

* The individual scripts ***need to be executed*** in the order in which they are mentioned, as the output generated by one script is needed for the execution of the further scripts.

## Directories:

* [out/](out/) : Stores the required output json and csv files.

* [data/](data/) : Data files used in the project.

* [meta/](meta/) : Stores the meta data (a set of json files) generated by the execution of scripts. The contents inside this folder ***should not*** be modified when the scripts are being executed. The folder can be deleted before beginning the execution of [`assign2.sh`](assign2.sh). These files are essentially a transformation of dataset into a more usable format.

## Data Files:

* [`C17`](data/C17) : Population by Bilingualism & Trilingualism
* [`DDW_PCA0000_2011_Indiastatedist`](data/DDW_PCA0000_2011_Indiastatedist.xlsx) : Overall Population Data
* [`DDW-0000C-08`](data/DDW-0000C-08.xlsx) : Educational Level By Age And Sex
* [`DDW-0000C-13`](data/DDW-0000C-13.xls) : Single Year Age
* [`DDW-C18-0000`](data/DDW-C18-0000.xlsx) : Population By Bilingualism, Trilingualism, Age And Sex
* [`DDW-C19-0000`](data/DDW-C19-0000.xlsx) : Population By Bilingualism, Trilingualism, Education Level And Sex

## Python Scripts:

* [meta.py](meta.py) : Converts the csv files to json format for use by the scripts later on.

* [q1.py](q1.py) : Solves Q1 and generates [`percent-india.csv`](out/percent-india.csv).

* [q2.py](q2.py) : Solves Q2 and generates [`gender-india.csv`](out/gender-india.csv).

* [q3.py](q3.py) : Solves Q3 and generates [`geography-india.csv`](out/geography-india.csv).

* [q4.py](q4.py) : Solves Q4 and generates [`2-to-1-ratio.csv`](out/2-to-1-ratio.csv) and [`3-to-2-ratio.csv`](out/3-to-2-ratio.csv).

* [q5.py](q5.py) : Solves Q5 and generates [`age-india.csv`](out/age-india.csv).

* [q6.py](q6.py) : Solves Q6 and generates [`literacy-india.csv`](out/literacy-india.csv).

* [q7.py](q7.py) : Solves Q7 and generates [`region-india-a.csv`](out/region-india-a.csv) and [`region-india-b.csv`](out/region-india-b.csv).

* [q8.py](q8.py) : Solves Q8 and generates [`age-gender-1.csv`](out/age-gender-1.csv), [`age-gender-2.csv`](out/age-gender-2.csv) and [`age-gender-3.csv`](out/age-gender-3.csv).

* [q9.py](q9.py) : Solves Q9 and generates [`literacy-gender-1.csv`](out/literacy-gender-1.csv), [`literacy-gender-2.csv`](out/literacy-gender-2.csv) and [`literacy-gender-3.csv`](out/literacy-gender-3.csv).

## Additional Notes:

* All Output files except those from Q4: Have the first line as header.

* In order to calculate p-value, [`Welch's t-test`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test) has been used.